---
title: "S1E1: OWASP Top 10 and Beyond: Expert Discussion with Randall Degges"
date: 2024-03-21
duration: "1h 7m"
layout: podcast
guest: Randall Deggs
guestBio: Snyk.io Head of DevRel
categories: [Podcast]
---
<div class="video-responsive" style="position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; margin-bottom: 2rem;">
    <iframe style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Kc8ZBMp9loI" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
<iframe id="embedPlayer" src="https://embed.podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/owasp-top-10-and-beyond-expert-discussion-with/id1737438641?i=1000650132364&amp;itsct=podcast_box_player&amp;itscg=30200&amp;ls=1&amp;theme=auto" height="175px" frameborder="0" sandbox="allow-forms allow-popups allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation" allow="autoplay *; encrypted-media *; clipboard-write" style="width: 100%; max-width: 660px; overflow: hidden; border-radius: 10px; transform: translateZ(0px); animation: 2s ease 0s 6 normal none running loading-indicator; background-color: rgb(228, 228, 228);"></iframe>

## Summary

In this conversation, Bartosz and Randall discuss various topics related to web security for developers. They cover Randall's journey in the tech industry, emerging threats, essential skills for developers, OWASP Top 10, static application security testing (SAST), software composition analysis (SCA), generative AI (LLMs) vs symbolic AI, and better solutions for credential recovery workflows. In this conversation, Randall Degges and Bartosz discuss various aspects of web security and its impact on developers. They cover topics such as fingerprinting, security concerns with APIs, making a positive impact on web security, addressing security alerts on non-production code, and the role of continuous learning in web security.

## Takeaways

- Developers should focus on the **fundamentals of web security**, such as **input sanitization** and **access control**, as these issues continue to be prevalent.
- Emerging threats, such as **prompt injection** in LLMs, require careful consideration and verification of outputs to ensure security.
- **OWASP Top 10** provides a valuable starting point for developers to understand common security vulnerabilities and improve their code.
- Using a combination of **static application security testing (SAST)** and **software composition analysis (SCA)** tools can help identify and fix security issues in code and dependencies.
- **Generative AI (LLMs)** and **symbolic AI** have different applications in the security field, with LLMs being more general-purpose and symbolic AI being more domain-specific.
- **Adaptive multi-factor authentication** and **anomaly detection** can enhance security by adding additional layers of verification based on user behavior and device information. **Fingerprinting** can be used to identify devices or browsers and improve user experience.
- Developers should be aware of security concerns when using **APIs**, but many of the concerns are similar to those for web apps.
- Normal developers can make a positive impact on web security by fixing security issues in **open source projects**.
- Even if security alerts are for **non-production code**, it is still important to address them to prevent future vulnerabilities.
- **Continuous learning** is crucial in web security and can significantly impact a developer's career trajectory and project success.

## Timestamps

- 00:00 Introduction to Web Security and AI
- 02:49 Randall's Journey in Tech Industry
- 06:09 The Importance of Solving Problems and Learning New Things
- 09:01 Emerging Threats and Essential Skills for Developers
- 21:17 Insecure Design and the Importance of Secure by Design Principles
- 25:24 Software Composition Analysis (SCA) & Static Application Security Testing (SAST)
- 32:27 Understanding Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) and Symbolic AI
- 35:15 Understanding Generative AI and Symbolic AI
- 39:00 Hybrid Approach in AI
- 44:59 Improving Password Security
- 52:59 Security Concerns in API Usage
- 56:17 Making a Positive Impact in Web Security
- 01:03:19 The Role of Continuous Learning in Web Security
