---
title: "The Battle of Access Control Models: RBAC vs. Others"
date: 2024-04-19
duration: "1h 12m"
layout: podcast
guest: Or Weis
guestBio: Founder at Permit.io
categories: [Podcast]
youtubeID: qAebA_Qit8k
spotifyID: 289OHkO3NMSgbqvfh9t3Lq
appleID: the-battle-of-access-control-models-𝐑𝐁𝐀𝐂/id1737438641?i=1000652871255
---
## Summary
The principle of least privilege is a key component of the zero trust architecture and mentality in software development. It is important to minimize access to the bare minimum that is needed to reduce the attack surface. Role-based access control (RBAC) is a commonly used approach where permissions are assigned to users based on their roles. Hierarchical RBAC adds a hierarchy to roles, allowing for more granularity. Attribute-based access control (ABAC) focuses on conditions and attributes to determine access. ABAC is useful for dynamic scenarios and can be combined with RBAC for more complex policies. Access control models, such as RBAC and ABAC, will continue to evolve as applications and technology change. The future of access control will involve more non-deterministic AI agents acting as users and integrations. Policy models will merge together and be simplified, focusing on groups, patterns of usage, and levels of usage. It is important for developers to stay up to date with security standards and best practices. Utilizing open source tools and connecting with their communities is a great way to stay informed. Additionally, engaging in discussions with other developers and seeking guidance can help navigate the complexities of access control.

## Takeaways
- The **principle of least privilege** is important in minimizing access and reducing the **attack surface** in software development.
- **Role-based access control (RBAC)** is a commonly used approach where permissions are assigned based on **roles**.
- **Hierarchical RBAC** adds a hierarchy to roles, allowing for more **granularity** in access control.
- **Attribute-based access control (ABAC)** focuses on conditions and attributes to determine access and is useful for **dynamic scenarios**.
- Applications often use a combination of **RBAC** and **ABAC** to implement access control policies. Access control models will continue to evolve as applications and technology change.
- The future of access control will involve more **non-deterministic AI agents** acting as users and integrations.
- Policy models will **merge** together and be simplified, focusing on **groups**, patterns of usage, and levels of usage.
- Developers should stay up to date with **security standards** and best practices.
- Utilizing **open source tools** and connecting with their communities can help developers stay informed.
- Engaging in discussions with other developers and seeking **guidance** can help navigate the complexities of access control.

## Timestamps
00:00 The Principle of Least Privilege and Zero Trust Architecture
10:54 Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) in Software Development
31:31 Combining RBAC and ABAC for Complex Access Control Policies
39:24 Granularity and Complexity in Access Control
46:01 Dynamic Filtering and Customization
53:42 The Future of Access Control
01:01:11 The Changing Landscape of Applications
01:08:25 Staying Up to Date with Security Standards