---
title: "Essentials of Secrets and Credentials Management with Hung Ngo"
date: 2024-05-12
duration: "1h 01m"
layout: podcast
guest: Hung Ngo
guestBio: Application Security Expert
categories: [Podcast]
youtubeID: bnRwYiJNgPw
spotifyID: 5DVhVjmAiDISu590ctAUSv
appleID: essentials-of-secrets-and-credentials-management/id1737438641?i=1000655210599
---
## Summary
In this episode, Bartosz and Hung discuss secrets management in web software development. They highlight the importance of securely managing digital authentication credentials and the risks associated with hard-coding secrets. They explore best practices such as using environmental variables, dedicated secrets management tools like HashiCorp Vault, and rotating secrets regularly. They also discuss the challenges of sharing secrets with new team members and the benefits of using a vault to securely store and access secrets. Improper secret management can lead to major issues, as seen in the Uber breach in 2022. Attackers used social engineering and MFA flooding to gain access to the system and found hard-coded credentials for a Privilege Access Management System. This allowed them to access cloud accounts and other sensitive information. Proper secrets management is crucial in different environments, such as development, testing, and production. Startups and small teams with limited resources can still implement secure practices, and there are tools available for free or at a lower cost. Future trends include automation, education, and implementing the least privileged principle.

## Takeaways
- **Secrets** management is crucial in web software development to securely manage **digital authentication credentials**.
- **Hard-coding secrets** is a common mistake that can lead to **data breaches** and **identity theft**.
- Best practices for **secrets management** include using **environmental variables**, dedicated secrets management tools like **HashiCorp Vault**, and regularly **rotating secrets**.
- Sharing secrets with new team members can be done securely using a **vault**.
- Using a vault provides **secure storage** and access to secrets, preventing **unauthorized access** and reducing the risk of exposure. Improper secret management can lead to major **security breaches**.
- Different environments require different **secrets management practices**.
- **Startups** and small teams can implement secure practices with **limited resources**.
- Future trends include **automation**, **education**, and implementing the **least privileged principle**.

## Timestamps
00:00 The Uber Breach and Social Engineering
07:25 The Importance of Secrets Management in Web Applications
09:45 The Problem of Hard-Coding Secrets
21:51 Managing Access and Rotating Secrets with a Vault
26:26 Securely Sharing Secrets with New Team Members
29:16 Recommended Tools for Secrets Management
30:42 The Impact of Improper Secret Management
33:02 The Multi-Layered Problem of Secrets Management
37:24 Secrets Management for Startups and Small Teams
41:05 Creating a Roadmap for Secrets Management
44:20 Future Trends in Secrets Management