---
title: "Mastering Threat Modeling: From Code to Security with Adam Shostack"
date: 2024-08-21
duration: "1h 10m"
layout: podcast
guest: Adam Shostack
guestBio: Threat Modeling Expert
categories: [Podcast]
youtubeID: 
spotifyID: 3xwH4Sc8tdqrDIw9PEO4HX
appleID: mastering-threat-modeling-from-code-to-security-with/id1737438641?i=1000666169078
---
## Summary
The conversation around the importance of threat modeling in software development, and the integration of security considerations into the development process. It also discusses the role of threat modeling in agile teams and the use of architectural decision records (ADRs) to incorporate security decisions. The conversation covers the journey of learning about threats, the importance of focus and questioning, the value of experience, the role of checklists, and the significance of STRIDE in threat modeling. It emphasizes the need for exploration and patience in developing security skills.

## Takeaways
- **Threat modeling** is essential in software development to consider security implications early in the design process.
- Integrating **security considerations** into the development process is crucial for shifting left and addressing potential risks.
- **ADRs** can be merged with security concerns to create concise records of architectural and security decisions.
- The journey of learning about **threats** is a valuable experience that requires focus and questioning.
- **Checklists** play a crucial role in systematizing and organizing tasks, reducing the mental burden, and improving focus.
- **STRIDE** provides a balance between generality and specificity, making it a valuable tool for threat modeling.
- Developing **security skills** requires exploration, experimentation, and patience, and it is not a quick or smooth process.
